[MUSIC]
So using the graphic user interface
with Raspian, it's nice to use that.
You don't always want to be
working from the terminal and
most of the commands we've
been talking about so
far, we've been talking about
using them at the terminal.
But with Linux, it is really useful
to be able to use the terminal.
That's why we're talking through it.
But most of the time,
you might wanna use the GUI.
Oh and certainly,
you can have both options.
So you can run the GUI and
start a terminal from within the GUI,
that's basically what I do.
I have the GUI running and
then I have the terminal, I can create
terminals inside that, so I can use both.
So if you boot up your machine and
you don't have the GUI,
you boot it straight into the terminal,
then you can type startx to start the GUI.
Startx starts what's called
the x windowing system,
that's a Window system that's usually used
with Linux and certainly with Raspian.
Now the Windows system has
what's called a window manager.
We're not gonna go into depth,
but the window manager determines
the look of the graphic user interface.
Now we're not gonna get
sophisticated about this.
But if you wanted to, you can get
that thing looking however you want.
You can make it look, they have window
managers that look just like windows or
look just like Mac.
You can make it look
exactly the way you want.
This is unlike operating systems
like Windows and Mac OS and
stuff like this where they are associated
with their graphic user interface.
Like when you see Windows,
it looks a certain way.
When you see Mac, it looks a certain way.
Linux, you can have it look however you
want based on the window manager that
you choose.
Now we're not gonna go changing the window
manager, we'll use the default one.
But understand that Linux
has this flexibility,
the operating system is
separate from the graphics.
So you can grab whatever window manager
you want or you could make your own,
if you wanted to.
So you only use startx to
start the windowing system
if you haven't configured Raspian to go
to the desktop, which I recommend that.
But if you didn't, you can do startx and
start the graphic user interface too.
The manager determines the look.
Now here's a snapshot of what my
desktop looked like at the time when I
recorded this.
So I just took a snapshot.
You can see that generally,
it's just like a regular windows system.
I've got three windows up right now.
You can see desktop in the top bar,
I have some icons up there
that programs are attached to.
There's a menu upper left button where
you can get a menu of things to do.
On my desktop in the background,
you can see a bunch of files,
which actually the screenshots
that I made these slides out of.
[LAUGH] And then I got three windows open,
two of which are terminal windows.
I got the top terminal window,
bottom terminal window.
And then to the right,
I've got a file manager window,
which I'll talk about in a second.
But this is typical, it's just
a regular windows system and you can,
do I'm assuming you're familiar with
these type of windowing systems.
If you ever use a Windows or a Mac
machine, you know what they look like and
they're all pretty darn similar.
File manager is useful.
The icon to start the file manager
on the desktop is a top bar.
It's a little icon that looks like a file,
a file drawer, a couple of file drawers.
You click on that,
it'll start the file manager and
this is just a regular file interface.
[COUGH] You got folders and
files in there,
you can double-click on a file to open
it or execute it if it's executable.
Double-click on a folder to
go into the directory, so on.
So, stuff that you're used to.
Similar to Windows and Mac, same thing.
Thank you.
[MUSIC]